Adding articles from identity platform, modified TOC (#31)
MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python: msal-python-conceptual/advanced/msal-error-handling-python.md

---
title: Handle errors and exceptions in MSAL for Python
description: Learn how to handle errors and exceptions, Conditional Access claims challenges, and retries in MSAL for Python applications.
---
# Handle errors and exceptions in MSAL for Python

The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) apps generate log messages that can help diagnose issues. An app can configure logging with a few lines of code, and have custom control over the level of detail and whether or not personal and organizational data is logged. We recommend you create an MSAL logging implementation and provide a way for users to submit logs when they have authentication issues.

## Logging levels

MSAL provides several levels of logging detail:

> - LogAlways: No level filtering is done on this log level. Log messages of all levels will be logged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `LogAlways`: No level filtering is done on this log level. Log messages of all levels will be logged.
```

> - Critical: Logs that describe an unrecoverable application or system crash, or a catastrophic failure that requires immediate attention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Critical`: Logs that describe an unrecoverable application or system crash, or a catastrophic failure that requires immediate attention.
```

> - Error: Indicates something has gone wrong and an error was generated. Used for debugging and identifying problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Error`: Indicates something has gone wrong and an error was generated. Used for debugging and identifying problems.
```

> - Warning: There hasn't necessarily been an error or failure, but are intended for diagnostics and pinpointing problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Warning`: There hasn't necessarily been an error or failure, but are intended for diagnostics and pinpointing problems.
```

> - Informational: MSAL will log events intended for informational purposes not necessarily intended for debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Informational`: MSAL will log events intended for informational purposes not necessarily intended for debugging.
```

> - Verbose (Default): MSAL logs the full details of library behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Verbose` (Default): MSAL logs the full details of library behavior.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > Not all log levels are available for all MSAL SDK's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Not all log levels are available for all MSAL libraries.
```

The pattern for handling this error is to interactively acquire a token using MSAL. This prompts the user and gives them the opportunity to satisfy the required Conditional Access policy.

In certain cases when calling an API requiring Conditional Access, you can receive a claims challenge in the error from the API. For instance if the Conditional Access policy is to have a managed device (Intune) the error will be something like [AADSTS53000: Your device is required to be managed to access this resource](/azure/active-directory/develop/reference-error-codes) or something similar. In this case, you can pass the claims in the acquire token call so that the user is prompted to satisfy the appropriate policy.

## Retrying after errors and exceptions

MSAL makes HTTP calls to the Azure AD service, and occasionally failures can occur.
For example the network can go down or the server is overloaded.

MSAL Python 1.11+ automatically performs one retry attempt for you.
You may customize this behavior by following

> [this instruction](https://msal-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#msal.ConfidentialClientApplication.params.http_client).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[the `http_client` customization instructions](xref:msal.application.ConfidentialClientApplication).
```

### HTTP 429

When the Service Token Server (STS) is overloaded with too many requests,
it returns HTTP error 429 with a hint about how long until you can try again in the `Retry-After` response field.

Your app was expected to throttle the subsequent requests, and only retry after the specified period.

> That was not an easy task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> MSAL Python 1.16+ made it easy for you, in that your app could blindly retry in any given time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSAL Python 1.16+ makes it easy for you to retry an authentication request on-demand
```

> (say, whenever the end user clicks the sign-in button again),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(for example, whenever the end-user clicks the sign-in button),
```

MSAL Python 1.16+ would automatically throttle those retry attempts by returning same error response from an HTTP cache,
and only sending out a real HTTP call when that call is attempted after the specified period.

By default, this throttle mechanism works by saving throttle information into a built-in in-memory HTTP cache.
You may provide your own `dict`-like object as the HTTP cache, which you can control how to persist its content.

> See [MSAL Python's API document](https://msal-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#msal.PublicClientApplication.params.http_cache)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [MSAL Python API documentation](xref:msal.application.PublicClientApplication)
```

The pattern for handling this error is to interactively acquire a token using MSAL. This prompts the user and gives them the opportunity to satisfy the required Conditional Access policy.

In certain cases when calling an API requiring Conditional Access, you can receive a claims challenge in the error from the API. For instance if the Conditional Access policy is to have a managed device (Intune) the error will be something like [AADSTS53000: Your device is required to be managed to access this resource](/azure/active-directory/develop/reference-error-codes) or something similar. In this case, you can pass the claims in the acquire token call so that the user is prompted to satisfy the appropriate policy.

## Retrying after errors and exceptions

MSAL makes HTTP calls to the Azure AD service, and occasionally failures can occur.
For example the network can go down or the server is overloaded.

MSAL Python 1.11+ automatically performs one retry attempt for you.
You may customize this behavior by following

> [the `http client` customization instruction](xref:msal.application.ConfidentialClientApplication).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[the `http_client` customization instructions](xref:msal.application.ConfidentialClientApplication).
```
